- [Instructor] Packaging modern Java applications
within containers has become a popular practice
because it's a consistent and portable way
to run your software.
Let's take a closer look at containers
and how they impact the way we build
and run modern Java applications.
Containers allow us to easily package our application
with its entire dependency stack
into a single executable unit known as a container image.
When building container images,
we first need to package our Java application
into an executable jar that includes an embedded server.
Then we add other dependencies to run the application
to the image.
So inside of the container,
we might place some configuration files necessary
to run the app.
But we don't stop there.
We'll also include the JVM inside the image
and a separate file system
that mirrors the host operating system.
So you wind up with the single artifact,
the container image that contains not only the application,
but its environment as well.
Once we've built a container image,
we can install a container runtime on any host
and deploy the image there to run.
Containers make our applications very portable.
We can deploy the same container image
to multiple environments and expect the same results.
So if you deploy an image to the staging environment
and then deploy it to production,
you don't have to worry about a mismatch
between the environments.
That's because the environment is packaged
inside the container along with the application.
Within the CI pipeline for a containerized app,
the last step is responsible
for building the container image and storing it
within a container registry.
Once stored in a registry,
the image can be retrieved and deployed to an environment
where it will run.
To achieve this, our pipeline will integrate
with two additional platforms
that are essential for working with containers.
The first is Docker,
which includes build kit for building our container images
and container D as the runtime that will run the image
as a container.
The next platform we'll use is GitHub Packages.
It's a container registry within GitHub
where we'll store the container images that we build.
GitHub Packages is automatically included
when you create a GitHub organization.
So it's already available for us to use.
So we have everything we need to build, store
and run our Java applications as containers.
Let's move onto the next lesson
to see exactly how it's done.